# Regression Modelling & Machine Learning

This repository contains assignments for 'Data Analysis and Interpretation' Specialization by Wesleyan University. 
Assignments require creating original ideas of analysis, choosing your dataset, and sharing your work publicly. I've chosen to analyze the relationship of trade openness (as a trade-GDP ratio) to income levels, economical remoteness, and ease of doing business, as well as WTO membership.

<a href='https://github.com/lvlvtn/wesleyan/blob/master/3.3.%20Test%20of%20Multiple%20Regression%20Model.ipynb'>Multiple regression analysis (3.3)</a> revealed a statistically significant relationship between trade openness and GDP per capita, economical remoteness, and ease of doing business. Income levels of a country positively associated with Trade Openness. For every 1% increase in GPD per capita trade openness of a country increases approximately by 0.095% Economical remoteness of a country is negatively associated with trade openness. For every 1% increase in remoteness, trade openness decreases by 0.11% Ease of doing business is positively associated with trade openness. For every 1 point increase in a score, trade openness increases by 1.57%. The assignment also features exploratory visualizations and diagnostics plots.

<a href='https://github.com/lvlvtn/wesleyan/blob/master/3.4.%20Test%20a%20Logistic%20Regression%20Model.ipynb'>Logistic regression (3.4)</a> revealed an association between WTO membership and the country's applied tariff. For each decrease in tariff the odds of the country being a member of WTO increase by a factor from 0.8 to 1.

<a href='https://github.com/lvlvtn/wesleyan/blob/master/4.1.%20Running%20a%20Classification%20Tree.ipynb'>Decision tree analysis</a> was performed to test nonlinear relationships between binary response variable WTO membership and the following explanatory variables: Ease of doing business, Trade Openness, GPD per Capita, and applied MFN tariff. The accuracy score of the model is approximately 0.907, which means that 91% of the samples in the test group were predicted correctly. The tariff was the first variable to separate the sample into two subgroups. 100% of the countries with an applied tariff higher than 19% were not members of the WTO.

<a href='https://github.com/lvlvtn/wesleyan/blob/master/4.2.%20Random%20Forests.ipynb'>The Random Forests Analysis</a> predicted WTO membership of a country accurately in 90% of the cases. The analysis revealed that the most important variable in predicting WTO membership is the average applied tariff with a score of 0.29. It is followed by country income level measured in GPD per capita with a score of 0.19 and economical remoteness of the country with a score of 0.14. The least important indicator in the model is whether a country is landlocked or not.

<a href='https://github.com/lvlvtn/wesleyan/blob/master/4.4.%20K-Means%20Cluster%20Analysis.ipynb'>K-Means Cluster Analysis</a> identified subgroups of countries based on their similarity in macroeconomic indicators, clusters have a significant association with trade openness according to the regression model. The richest, easiest to do business in countries had the highest trade openness. The second higher trade openness has countries that were the poorest. We can hypothesize that those countries are not benefiting from free trade, and maybe can not stand to global competition. However, the Tukey test shows that a significant difference was observed only between the first and third groups (the second-highest and second-lowest in income levels), between the second and the fourth group (poorest and richest) and between third and fourth groups (the second-highest and the richest).
